# The Myth of Growing Money
### The opportunity cost is failing to issue credit

So credit is a financial transaction without relying on money, or you can view it as *creating*
money, as I describe in my post "Solving the Credit Problem".  If you accept someone's word, or some
other promise to pay money, you 

## Removing Time From The Picture

To understand how time value works, it helps to remove time from the picture.  Let's say you are
playing settlers of Catan, or some such game, and there are 2 countries on different islands.  One
country has a lot of wood, and the other has a lot of ore.  Each country has a shortage of the other
resource.  The country with a wood surplus will offer a low price for wood.

The issue with pricing goods across time, is to imagine the times as different countries.  Will this
resource become more or less abundant in the future?  You also have to consider the fact that
populations are growing.  If the answer is less, then 

## Housing Markets Today are BULLSHIT!

Housing markets are priced in such a way so that the people providing services can make a decent
profit, while not taking too big a chunk of the sticker price.  If their profits are too small, they will
conspire to get housing prices valued higher.  Note that this is not really a function of the costs
they incur, because it really is a controlled market.  Many professionals who work in these markets
are not really doing any work, or a very small amount of work, it's just something they control to
make money from it.  Their job is not to provide a good or service, but to control the good or
service.

So housing equity gets pushed up so that these market players can take home bigger profits, and the
home purchaser doesn't feel like they are getting ripped off.  All other markets prices have become
more commoditized and competitive.  But housing markets are anti-competitive.  This has nothing to
do with a land value tax or any other such bullshit.  It's all a function of money lending, or
credit systems being broken and grossly inefficient.  And then that bullshit spreads to the
associated industries.  How much you make is poorly correlated with how much value you deliver.

Most other markets strive for better quality and efficiency, but housing markets work through the
promise of equity to a home owner.  The homeowner, wants equity because it is better than paying
rent, where you get no equity.  So homeowners essentially buy the time value of their houses for the
cost of maintenance plus interest only.  The equity value is subtracted from what the homeowner is
willing to pay.  The market wants to be continually and artificially inflating prices, because any
price inflation just means people are willing to pay more in interest and other costs.  It is the
essence of a pyramid scheme, simply based on the fact that there is not of a market for buying homes
without credit, and our economic and financial systems are intentionally designed AGAINST creating
credit efficiently.  Just like any price markup you get at the grocery store, is a measure of the
costs and inefficiencies of deliverying the product to you, the price markup on credit transactions,
is simply a measure of the TOTAL inefficiency to deliver the product to you.

If we look at nature, bees make their honeycombs out of honey.  It actually takes
[6-8 pounds](https://beekeeperfacts.com/how-long-does-it-take-for-bees-to-make-honeycomb-hate-waiting/
of honey, to make 1 pound of wax.  So in that case, storing value is only about 12% efficient.  90%
of the value goes into the storage mechanism, which can't be recovered.

While human interest does significantly better, in that people typically pay $2 for every $1 of
house, there's really no functional reason for that, in the way that honeycomb serves a functional
purpose.  The cost of a loan should be:

    principle + bookkeeping costs + (recovery cost)*(default chance) + (insurance) + markup(bad)

Nowhere should time value come into this, because time value is **lost** when you fail to extend
credit.  The idea that money naturally grows is a myth.

Generally, one would expect wealth and populations to grow in roughly proportional amounts, with
perhaps a slightly faster growth rate for wealth.  So maybe because wealth is more abundant in the
future, it makes sense to pay back a little bit more. But the actual truth of the matter is, all
money is a form of credit, and money inflates, it doesn't deflate, so credit can work as efficiently
as money, and it can inflate, or offer negative returns too.  You increse wealth by creating
more financial assets, NOT through the growth of the financial assets which exist.  Free interest,
or "Growing Money" is actually nothing more than an incentive to NOT produce, to capture markets and
not generate output.  Do not trust any money that multiplies on its own.  It is a lie.
